---
title: "Book Review: The DynamoDB Book"
date: 2020-12-05T12:37:24-05:00
draft: false
tags: ['SDI']
summary: "This book is excellent.  It is so worth the money.  Get the $80 version and then decide if you want to upgrade."
---

# What it is

[The DynamoDB Book, by Alex Debrie.](https://www.dynamodbbook.com/)

# The Short Version

This book is excellent.  It is so worth the money.  Get the $80 version and then decide if you want to upgrade.

# The Long Version

## What and Why

This book is Alex Debrie's crystallization of deep knowledge of DynamoDB, with a foreword by certified space wizard Rick Houlihan.

> Alex has invested himself in the subject matter he is presenting here for you in great detail, and he is no doubt a more than capable guide. Open your mind and let this book lead you to that lightbulb moment. - Rick Houlihan

It's a practical guide to DDB, NoSQL modeling in general, and the nitty-gritty of usage patterns and pitfalls for DDB.  If you are a developer who has mostly lived in the RESTful relational realm, this is a _great_ place to dive in to understanding the other side of the coin.  If you are preparing for Systems Design interviews or thinking about building a data intensive app, this will give you a great home base and formidable guide to set worth with.

## What is covered

There is a ton of content in here.  This is a brief Table of Contents for the major material.

### Structure of DDB

What are partitions and sort keys etc, how are those partitions managed on boxes, how does consistency manifest in this architecture.

### NoSQL Modeling Patterns

How to handle 1-1, 1-Many, Many-Many relationship modeling under different data volatility scenarios.

### Example Modeling

Alex works several examples with different data requirements to drive home his points.

### Expressions

Examples and gotchas of all the major expression types:

 * Key Condition Expressions
 * Filter Expressions
 * Projection Expressions
 * Condition Expressions
 * Update Expressions

### Sorting and Filtering

Each of these have their own chapters of strategies.

### Batches and Transactions

Some of the more recent additions to DDB, supporting multi-object operations with "all must succeed" and "as many as possible".

## Cheat Sheets

Alex does the reader a service by summarizing his own material for easy reference.  Have you ever read a dense book and had to take notes to absorb the material with spaced reinforcement?  This is pre-made.

## JS + Python Cheatsheet

For two major languages most developers have at least heard of, the cheatsheet provides code snippets of the major operations.

## Other Usage Advice

The little stuff you might stumble over unless advised otherwise is well-handled here.  Things like "Filtering won't actually save you from paginating your results, because filtering is a post-data-retrieval step, best for bandwidth control."

## Shortcomings

There are some things DDB is not designed to do well, especially in the "Volatile Many-Many relationships" space.  Alex spends some time on the modeling strategies for these, but some of them, like the Materialized Graph section, are a bit brief.  (Alex notes that they are niche when discussing the lack of a deeper example).

# Conclusion

Read this book to be expand your potential as a developer, to understand the strengths and weaknesses of other tools, and to save yourself the heartbreak of having to learn lessons the hard way.

> “Only a fool learns from his own mistakes. The wise man learns from the mistakes of others.” ― Otto von Bismarck
